# credit-risk-classification

## Module 20: Supervised Machine Learning 
### Load Risk Predictive Model Analysis
#### Purpose
The purpose of this assignment is to develop a predictive model that can assess the creditworthiness of borrowers based on historical lending activity. The features used to evaluate if a borrow will default on a loan are the following: 
•	Loan size
•	Interest rate
•	Borrower income
•	Debt to income ratio – the ratio of the borrowers’ total monthly debt payments against their total monthly income.
•	Number of accounts
•	Derogatory marks – including items like missed payments, bankruptcies, and foreclosures. Derogatory marks are typically recorded in one’s credit score.
•	Total debt
Using these features, the predictive model will predict if the loan will be healthy or if the load is high-risk of default. A value of 0 means the loan is healthy and a value of 1 means the load is high-risk. 
#### Method
This machine learning model was built using the following method: 
The .csv file data was separated into two categories; features used to determine loan status, and loan status. They were labeled “features_x” and “label_y” respectively. Then, the data was split into 75% training data and 25% testing data. This standard split distribution provides the model with data to train the algorithm and an unseen dataset to demonstrate functionality. Then, using the SKLearn library, a logistic regression model was initiated and fit to the training dataset. Then, predictions were made on the testing dataset. The predictions accuracy score was determined to by 0.95 and a confusion matrix was generated. 
The logistic regression model was then retrained on resampled training data. Using the imbalanced-learn library, RandomOverSampler was imported and the random oversampler model was initiated. Then the original training data was fit to the oversampler model to produce the resampled data, “X_resampled” and “y_resampled”. The functions shape and value_counts were used to visualize the data distribution. Then, the logistic regression model was initiated using the resampled data, and the model was used to make loan status predictions and stored in a variable, “re_predict”. The balanced accuracy score and confusion matrix were created. Finally, the classification report for the resampled model was generated. 
#### Results 
The classification report for the original predictive model was generated and showed a 100% correct prediction rate for scores of 0, indicating a healthy loan; and an 89% correct prediction rate for scores of 1, indicating a high-risk loan. The model can predict a high-risk loan correctly 89% of the time, which means that 11% of the time the model is incorrect in predicting high-risk loans. Practically, that means that some borrowers who are not likely to default on a loan will be labeled as high-risk borrowers unfairly by this model in its current state. 
The classification report for the resampled data predictive model was generated and showed a 100% correct prediction rate for scores of 0, indicating a healthy loan; and a 93% correct prediction rate for scores of 1, indicating a high-risk loan. The model can predict a high-risk loan correctly 93% of the time, which is a 4% improvement over the original predictive model. While this new model will still prevent some loan seekers from obtaining loans under the false prediction of high-risk, it is a better model than the original model and should be used to assess a borrower’s future loan status potential instead of the original model.
#### Recommendation
Based on the F1-scores of both Machine Learning Models 1 and 2, I recommend the use of Machine Learning Model 2. 
#### References
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
